README.md, before:


# The Official Tutorial Archive™ of Nokogiri®

These tutorials appear on [nokogiri.org](http://nokogiri.org/) at
[http://nokogiri.org/tutorials](http://nokogiri.org/tutorials).


## How Do I Suggest Opportunities for Improving Documentation?

You could start by emailing
[nokogiri-talk](http://groups.google.com/group/nokogiri-talk).

Or, if you're feeling antisocial, you could just open a [Github
Issue](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri.org-tutorials/issues).


## How Do I Contribute Documentation?

1. Fork.
2. Edit.
3. Submit pull request.

Please mentally prepare to have your contributions copyedited. Edits
don't mean you're a bad writer, it means that we want the
documentation to have a ["Unity of
Effect"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Philosophy_of_Composition).


## How Do I Edit and View My Changes?

I've built an overly-complicated system that runs the ruby code in the
documentation and captures the output as part of the final
product. (See "Inline Code" below.)

So, you write markdown and the Rakefile generates better markdown.

1. `bundle install`
2. Edit markdown files in the `content/` directory.
3. `bundle exec rake markdown`
4. View final versions of markdown in the `markdown/` directory.

If you want to see how your docs would appear on nokogiri.org, you
should clone the repository at
[github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri.org](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri.org)
and follow the instructions there. This repository is a submodule of
that one.


### Inline Code

Lines starting with `~~~ inline <filename>` are replaced by the file contents in a blockquote.

It's recommended to place anything that's not text into a separate
asset file (so my [bitchin' editor](http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/)
can use the right mode).

So, if you want to inline any blockquoted content, create a file in
`content/assets` and reference it from the markdown file like so:

    Here's some XML for your entertainment:

    ~~~ inline assets/shows.xml

    And here's some ruby:

    ~~~ inline assets/search-setup.rb


### Live Code with `xmpfilter`

In many places in the docs, ruby code is presented along with its
output
([like here](http://nokogiri.org/tutorials/searching_a_xml_html_document.html)).

When the docs are generated, this ruby code is actually run with the
installed version of nokogiri, and the output is captured!  Wicked
awesome! How does that work?

Lines starting with `~~~ ruby <filename>` are replaced by the output
of running the code in `<filename>` through
[xmpfilter](http://eigenclass.org/hiki.rb?xmpfilter).

So, if you want to inline ruby code and its output, create a file in
`content/assets` and reference it from the markdown file like so:

    Here's some ruby along with its stdout:

    ~~~ ruby assets/search-xpath-characters-first.rb


### Adding New Chapters

If you want to add a new chapter, make sure you update the file
`content/toc` to contain the title (the first H1) of the
chapter. `toc` is an ordered list.


### Conventions

Don't use inline links. Instead, use footnote-style. Any variation is OK, including blank name:

    Check out [my lolcat][]

      [my lolcat]: http://icanhascheezburger.com/

or a semantic name:

    Check out [this picture of my lolcat][lolcat]

      [lolcat]: http://icanhascheezburger.com/

or an integer:

    Check out [this picture of my lolcat][1]

      [1]: http://icanhascheezburger.com/

Commit message:

update README with pointer to existing issues
in case anyone wants to help

README.md, after:


# The Official Tutorial Archive™ of Nokogiri®

These tutorials appear on [nokogiri.org](http://nokogiri.org/) at
[http://nokogiri.org/tutorials](http://nokogiri.org/tutorials).


## How Do I Suggest Opportunities for Improving Documentation?

You could start by emailing
[nokogiri-talk](http://groups.google.com/group/nokogiri-talk).

Or, if you're feeling antisocial, you could just open a [Github
Issue](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri.org-tutorials/issues).


## What needs to be documented? I'd like to help.

Take a look at the [open issues](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri.org-tutorials/issues)!


## How Do I Contribute Documentation?

1. Fork.
2. Edit.
3. Submit pull request.

Please mentally prepare to have your contributions copyedited. Edits
don't mean you're a bad writer, it means that we want the
documentation to have a ["Unity of
Effect"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Philosophy_of_Composition).


## How Do I Edit and View My Changes?

I've built an overly-complicated system that runs the ruby code in the
documentation and captures the output as part of the final
product. (See "Inline Code" below.)

So, you write markdown and the Rakefile generates better markdown.

1. `bundle install`
2. Edit markdown files in the `content/` directory.
3. `bundle exec rake markdown`
4. View final versions of markdown in the `markdown/` directory.

If you want to see how your docs would appear on nokogiri.org, you
should clone the repository at
[github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri.org](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri.org)
and follow the instructions there. This repository is a submodule of
that one.


### Inline Code

Lines starting with `~~~ inline <filename>` are replaced by the file contents in a blockquote.

It's recommended to place anything that's not text into a separate
asset file (so my [bitchin' editor](http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/)
can use the right mode).

So, if you want to inline any blockquoted content, create a file in
`content/assets` and reference it from the markdown file like so:

    Here's some XML for your entertainment:

    ~~~ inline assets/shows.xml

    And here's some ruby:

    ~~~ inline assets/search-setup.rb


### Live Code with `xmpfilter`

In many places in the docs, ruby code is presented along with its
output
([like here](http://nokogiri.org/tutorials/searching_a_xml_html_document.html)).

When the docs are generated, this ruby code is actually run with the
installed version of nokogiri, and the output is captured!  Wicked
awesome! How does that work?

Lines starting with `~~~ ruby <filename>` are replaced by the output
of running the code in `<filename>` through
[xmpfilter](http://eigenclass.org/hiki.rb?xmpfilter).

So, if you want to inline ruby code and its output, create a file in
`content/assets` and reference it from the markdown file like so:

    Here's some ruby along with its stdout:

    ~~~ ruby assets/search-xpath-characters-first.rb


### Adding New Chapters

If you want to add a new chapter, make sure you update the file
`content/toc` to contain the title (the first H1) of the
chapter. `toc` is an ordered list.


### Conventions

Don't use inline links. Instead, use footnote-style. Any variation is OK, including blank name:

    Check out [my lolcat][]

      [my lolcat]: http://icanhascheezburger.com/

or a semantic name:

    Check out [this picture of my lolcat][lolcat]

      [lolcat]: http://icanhascheezburger.com/

or an integer:

    Check out [this picture of my lolcat][1]

      [1]: http://icanhascheezburger.com/
